well howdy there internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about international relations I often
say that these things don't occur in a
vacuum what I'm talking about
international relations one thing
impacts something else that impact
something else and there's there's a lot
of consequences to even small decisions
I had somebody asked me for examples of
that because I used that phrase a lot
but I've never really sat down and said
this happens then this happens and
connected at all fair enough
so tonight we're going to go through
Trump's foreign policy endeavors give a
little report card just go country by
country to everywhere that he has
involved himself and see how each
location is doing after mr. art of the
deal got involved okay we're gonna start
with the Philippines because that is the
one that everybody's talking about right
now because it just happened the
Philippines is no longer an ally by
traditional doctrine yeah that's
important that they they should be we
should have done what we could to to
keep them I personally disagree I don't
think it's that important I actually
think it's kind of a happy accident I'm
kind of glad it happened as we're about
to see as we go through the other
countries Trump is not equal to the task
when it comes to dealing with China and
in a foreign policy setting what we're
talking about spheres of influence he's
just not up to that period she can't do
it the way I'm looking at it is harm
reduction the Philippines not being an
ally is just one less way he can
accidentally start a war that that's
really my take on it the media keeps
asking the question you know what are we
losing you know how you know how is the
u.s. losing out with with Philip with
the Philippines withdrawing that's the
wrong question if you want to understand
the importance of it that's the wrong
question
the question isn't what are we losing
the question is why was the Philippines
okay with losing us we're the United
States everybody wants to be our ally
because we'll go to war over anything
but they don't want to be our ally what
does that tell you
Trump in three years has weakened
America's position on the international
stage so much that the Philippines is
shopping for another Kellogg how did he
weaken it well bat we're about to go
through it now I will say this before we
go before we get off the Philippines the
reason that they withdrew their stated
reason I'm had to do with the
administration denying a visa to
somebody that visa should have been
denied I think that was the right move
normally when you do something like that
there is a diplomacy detachment you know
sent over and they smooth things over
apparently that didn't happen but their
stated cause which isn't their real
cause that wasn't a mistake on Trump's
part on the administration's part that
visa should have been denied okay so
what about Europe our main allies our
traditional allies over there the ones
that made up the core of NATO before the
end of the Cold War they're still
they're still with us they're ignoring
Trump they're ignoring the United States
right now because he's Trump when we get
into the administration they'll come
back that's an easily repairable
situation so I don't think that we
should focus too much on that
yeah he's mess stuff up there but it's
not a huge deal it's easily fixable
when we get to the newer members of NATO
that's not entirely true but we will
show some examples of that here
and it okay so let's get to the hot
spots it gets the spots where it really
matters where he really showed his his
skill level Syria this was the location
where he proved he knew more than all of
the generals and advisors and against
every body's advice and counsel he
pulled our troops back and agreed to
allow Turkey to enter Syria sold out the
Kurds in the process losing us one of
the most powerful non-state actors in
the region okay so what's happened since
then nothing good and it is now on the
verge of turning into a regional war
Turkey and Syria are actively shooting
at each other the US and Syrian backed
forces and possibly Syrian troops
directly by some reports are shooting at
each other
Russia is watching it laughing and the
whole thing is a powder keg that could
turn into a regional war at literally
any moment that was an unmitigated
failure we got nothing and lost
everything one country over Iraq when he
pulled off his little hit they got upset
go figure they've asked us to leave
things are kind of calming down but not
really they will never be what we spent
a decade trying to get them to be
because now the people that are poised
to take power
they are buddied up to a-rod Trump lost
Iraq
understanding that he's on thin ice he
asked NATO to step in and help bow our
traditional allies the those in Western
Europe they're like okay well we'll
we'll conduct some extra training
exercises with the Iraqis try to smooth
things over those European allies that
are from Eastern Europe they're not
doing anything because they don't want
to relocate assets to Iraq when they
have Russia up against their border what
if they get attacked
well they should have to worry about
that because they have the u.s. as an
ally but for all they know we will leave
them twisting in the wind while we try
to get political dirt on a domestic
rival these things don't exist in a
vacuum they don't want to help people
and I can't say I blame to be honest
okay Iran one country over the hit it
was in the beginning with the
information we were given in the
beginning it was a draw at best didn't
do anything but whatever all now that
all of the information has come out we
understand that the u.s. got one of
theirs they wounded a hundred of ours
they are looking at it as a web and they
stood the us down that little exercise
served to strengthen Iran's hand it
makes them more of a regional superpower
one country over Afghanistan now this
one is not entirely Trump's fault he
inherited a horrible situation and
somehow found a way to make it worse the
US has been trying to leave Afghanistan
they were trying to get out and
the problem is is the national
governments pretty weak
and if we just abandon them well it it
looks bad it's really what it boils down
to Trump
handicapped his negotiators he did he
walked down said we want to leave well
great now they have no leverage we
talked about it when it happened
and we were like they're never going to
be able to get a decent deal now because
the Taliban has no reason to negotiate
they just have to wait us out the way
that deal currently stands the United
States is basically just begging them to
reduce violence for a little bit
can't even get a temporary ceasefire
that's how much he undermined his own
negotiators through his public
statements and his tweets we will just
end up just selling out that the
national government the Taliban will
take over again he managed to lose that
war as well in his defense that one
probably wasn't entirely his fault it
probably would have gone down that way
no matter what he just ensured that it
did okay so that that's it that's his
foreign policy endeavors unless you want
to go ahead and count the deal of the
century the amazing peace deal that was
so great and so peaceful it triggered
riots and everybody rejected it out of
hand
that's his foreign policy there we have
not had a president this bad at foreign
policy if you're waiting for a like
since whatever there's not just ever we
have not had somebody this bad at this
the next administration is going to need
a secretary of state that is just
amazing I understand most of the
candidates that are coming up now
they're kitchen-table candidates and
that's fine but they have to have a
secretary of state that has a true
diplomat
because some of this is going to be very
complex to fix and it's going to take a
lot of finesse and it's gonna have to be
done or the effects of Trump will just
snowball and at the end of the day his
landmine diplomacy has taken the United
States from its position that it
attained after World War two as just a
world superpower and turned it into a
nation that other countries don't even
care if they lose the Alliance that's
what he's done in three years we need a
secretary of state that is just amazing
otherwise the impacts from Trump will
last decades because it's gonna have to
be fixed immediately after he leaves
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night